On large scales, the universe is well understood in the framework of the friedmann-robertson-walker solutions to the Einstein equations. On "small" scales (here small is like groups of galaxies so like 1 megaparsec so no really small in our terms) non-linear evolution and complex dissapative effects between galaxies play an important role. However, on scales of 10 to 500 Mpc the universe has only evolved mildy since the recombination epoch. (recombination refers to the epoch at which charged electrons and protons first became bound to form electrically neutral hydrogen atoms). 

The question is can we model this universal structure on a large scale. Modelling this can be hard since there are large pockets (tens of megaparsecs) called voids which make it a non-possion distribution. The discovery of the CfA group the "great wall" of galaxies are suggestive of large (100 Mpc) cellular structures of mass. 

From Icke and Weygaert 1991: "the general impression from all these observations is a univserse in which the galaxies are situated in walls (pancakes), denser filaments, and very dense nodes, forming a network which surrounds huge voids." They created a voronoi foam model which is an approximation of clustering on large scales based on the assumtion that the dominant physical mechanism is newtonian pressure free gravity. 

There are some complications namely that even without dissipation pancakes can remain thin (Dekel 1983). These complications only occur in high density regions so here we just concern ourselves with low-density regions. These are what form the voids. Because a void is effectively a region of negative density in a uniform background, the voids expand as the superdense regions collaps while slight aspherities decrease as the voids become larger (bubble theorem Icke 1984). This is only true with a non exapnding background. 

If we take voids to be the dominant dynamical component of the univsersee the large scale structure is that of clsely packed sphere of difference sizes from which matter flows in a slightly super-ubble exapnsion towards teh interstices ofthe spheres. The ijmportance of teh buble theore is that it provides a specific physical mechanism for producing the non-poissonian matter distribution in the large cale universe. 

Say there is some cosmic process (the origin and properties of this process is sort of mysterious to my knowledge) that produces regions where the density is lower than usual. Then any matter in these regions will flow away from the voids until they encounter similar material flowing from an adjacent void. 

These underdense regions are the "seeds" of the voids. In 3D a voronoi foam is packing vornoi cells with each cell being a convex polyhedron enclosed by bisecting planes between the nuclei and the neihbors. A voronoi foam simulation consists of 4 parts polyhedral cells (voids), the walls (pancakes), edges (filaments) where 3 walls intersect, and nodes (clusters) where four filaments come toghether. 


Paper for Kinematic Voronoi Model
